I'm gonna undo these cuz we don't need
to do that, this part is fantastic,
this is kind of like where
the magic happens, okay?
Everyone ready for the magic to happen?
All right, I've done a couple things,
first, I've created a private file.
You're not allowed to see what's
in that private's file, okay?
It contains some information.
So I'm gonna just simply source
the private file, awesome.
I now have some
environmental keys in here.
I have a key to a provider that runs
on a test network, it's called Alchemy,
if you've ever been to Alchemy.
Alchemy effectively, let's say,
okay, might expose them.
I dox myself all the time, so
it effectively provides a way
into the network, and you need a way
to provide yourself into the network.
Now what you could do is you
could use a thing called Geth and
actually create an Ethereum node
that connects to a real network on
your machine and make requests yourself.
Well, I don't do that, instead,
most people just simply use
a provider that's already out there.
There's one called Alchemy,
there's another one called Infura,
you can find out a bunch
of different ones.
Alchemy seems to be a pretty popular one,
so I just chose that.
So I have an Alchemy key and then I also
have a Rinkeby private account or wallet.
So if we look at right here, if I open up
my MetaMask, you'll notice that I have,
let's switch over to Rinkeby, and
you'll notice that I have this one.
I have a decent amount of Rinkeby,
I actually had someone try to pay me for
some of the Rinkeby when
it was really hard to get.
I almost made money off of fake money,
I mean, even faker money than fake money,
it was like super fake.
And it was very fantastic,
I was very excited about it.
But there we go, I have some fake
Ether on a network called Rinkeby.
Which means now that I've sourced, I have
those private key informations inside
of here, I'm gonna cat out one thing
from something behind me, what is it?
Yeah, rinkeby.json,
I knew that, rinkeby.json.
I'm gonna copy this little piece of code,
you guys don't need to do
this cuz obviously you haven't set
up all the accounts and all that.
I'm gonna copy this, I'm gonna go to our
hardhat config and under our networks,
I'm gonna include this, rinkeby.
This is how you communicate with Rinkeby.
Now notice we still have everything
else the same, I'm just saying, hey,
here's the URL to the provider, here's the
list of accounts that you're gonna use.
So instead of having our 20 hydrated
accounts from the local network,
I'm now providing the list of accounts for
it to use by using my private key.
And so there we go,
we have these two things right here.
I'm gonna do this now,
this is where things are gonna
get a little bit interesting.
Just so I don't screw myself like I did
last night, I'm also gonna go like this,
console.log(counter.address).
I'm gonna print my address cuz if you
forget to print your address, well,
I can't contact it.
So then you have to deploy it again.
So now that we've done that, I'm gonna go
npx hardhat, I'm gonna launch my counter
but this time, I'm gonna erase
localhost and put in rinkeby.
There we go.
We are now putting it onto an actual
test net that will exist tomorrow,
this contract will go on and live forever.
Now it's gonna take a little bit longer
than our previous items because it's
actually contacting something that's
not just simply on our localhost.
So it has to go through all this stuff.
There we go, I got an address out,
pretty exciting, right?
At least I'm pretty excited.
Also notice something kind of funny.
Our counter is zero, last time we
did that, our counter was one, why?
Cuz we were doing a node request to
a node that existed on our machine and
we were able to catch state's transition
because it could happen in a single step.
Now we're on a real network,
state transitions don't happen
in a single step anymore, right?
So it takes longer, all right?
So now we do that fun game again.
I'm going to the environment,
erasing that, putting in our new one,
go to webpack, kill that,
relaunch webpack.
And as this thing launches,
it'll take a second.
I go here, we are now at one.
Also notice that it took a second.
Do you see that kinda
how it took a moment?
We're now out there contacting it.
And how are we contacting Rinkeby?
It's cuz I took MetaMask and I set it
to the Rinkeby network, that is it.
So notice we didn't change
any of our frontend code.
I'm going to increment it,
it's now running on somewhere else.
We have the wrong account hooked up to it,
so
this exciting part just got a little bit
less exciting, not so happy about that.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna go here, I am gonna take this,
I'm gonna connect to my network.
There we go, connected,
beautiful, awesome, do that.
I'm gonna refresh it just in case.
Let's increment this thing,
and there we go, we have this.
We're gonna confirm the transaction,
and now we're going to wait.
So this transaction is happening
on a real test network.
We could go to Ether scan,
we could actually find this
information on Ether scan for it.
So it has happened and
we just got the increment right there.
So we actually, look at that,
look how sweet that is.
Okay, I think this is the coolest part.
I don't see very many smiles or
cheers or gasps, but this was awesome.
We went from our machine
all the way out into the,
I don't know where Rinkeby exists.
It exists in a decentralized way, right?
On hundreds of machines out in the world.
And we just put that state changing
transaction that will live effectively
forever as long as Rinkeby does
that will be there forever.
You in a year from now, if it's still up,
can take this contract address and
increment it for fun, right?
If someone's at home doing it right now,
if they're fast enough to do it,
they would probably increment it in front
of me and it would start going up, right?
That's how awesome this is,
is that it actually worked.
We actually launched it somewhere else and
changed nothing about our frontend,
because the provider is what abstracts
that communication to the network.
Okay, well, I mean,
I thought that was awesome.
So I can paste in the contract address.
If anyone wants to increment it,
we'll come back and
see how many increments we have.
It's on the Rinkeby network, so
you'll have to have a Rinkeby account.
You'll obviously,
have to be able to write that deploy code.
Kind of good little exercise to not
deploy it, but to just simply talk to it,
do all that kind of fun thing.
There's a lot we just did here,
is there any specific questions?
>> Can you in Ethereum contract,
it can really just have any
arbitrary effect on anything,
then it doesn't necessarily
have to do with monetary transactions or
moving Ethers around?
>> That is exactly right.
That's why I'm so excited about this,
cuz right now it's hyper inefficient,
it's not that great.
Every technology that's
ever been introduced,
its first version has always sucked.
That's just the reality of the life,
right?
I mean, think about cell phones, they
weren't that awesome, they got awesome,
they've been more awesome.
First Internet, who had 14.4, right?
Who had the dial-up sounds, right?
That sucked, but
it was awesome at the exact same time.
And so the same thing with this,
is it's super expensive,
it's ridiculously expensive,
it's not worth it at all expensive.
It needs to come down by
at least 1,000 fold for
it to be even partially useful
in any sort of real context.
But we're not doing
anything with JPEG art,
we're not doing anything
with moving Ethers around.
We're just simply creating functionality
and using it like AWS Lambda.
And that is what's really cool about this,
is that it's a decentralized
censorship resistant network in which
you can put things up that execute.
And to me, that's a pretty novel or
neat idea.
Now, will it pan out in the future?
Like I said, I have no strong stance
either way cuz I can't read into
the future, but
I just think it's a very exciting thing.
And so, hopefully, you're feeling that
excitement kinda rise cuz that's how I
felt at this point when
I launched onto Rinkeby,
cuz I originally wasn't gonna do that.
But I thought, okay, I'm gonna give it
just a quick try, maybe it'll work out,
this was two days ago.
And I just did it first try and
I was like, holy shit,
that really worked way easier
than I thought it was going to.
Cuz every time I've done Rinkeby
before that, it was always I had so
much setup and all that.
But now that I'm just slightly familiar
with it, just blazed right through and
it worked, and I was like,
wow, that was sweet.
All right, Mark.
>> So Alchemy provisions a node for you
to use, does that cost anything to use?
>> There's the free to use plan,
it has quite a few cycles on the free
to use plan, so I just use that, right?
Eventually, yes, you will have to pay for
any provider as you become a larger and
larger place.
If you were to try to launch something
that does a lot of transactions,
that does a lot of testing, you will
eventually have to pay for something.
But for now, easy to use,
free first using little bits.
It's kind like the lowest plan on Heroku,
exact same thing.
>> So
nobody can stop us from counting now?
>> No one,
nobody can stop us from counting.
[LAUGH] It'll be censorship forever.
There we go, let me go over to this thing,
and I'll throw in that,
there we go, fantastic.
By the way, there's the Rinkeby address
to our contract, you can call account.
If you want to do that just put it
in the chat, you can always do this.
There we go, that's the interface.
If you just wanna use that,
you should be able to start up in Ethers.
Plug that little interface in there,
do that address, and
just start calling it if you want to.
>> Is there a linter or
anything like that for those interfaces?
>> So those interfaces,
that's why I just use hardhat,
they generate those interfaces for me.
But on the other side,
I don't know if there is something
that does it from the TypeScript side.
I'm sure because, I mean,
let's just be real here.
If you look at the code,
let's see, what is it?
It's artifacts, this, there we go.
Oop, not that one, art, I ignored
that artifacts thing, sorry, hold on.
If we just look at this right here,
not that one, this one.
This take me an hour to write
a generalized version to be able to
generate out these interfaces such
that they'd be attached to objects and
returned back, right?
It's not very hard,
you have all the information.
So it definitely can be done,
I'm sure it probably already is done,
I just don't know about it.
The reality is I write very little.
When it comes to
the website side of things,
I try to avoid as much as I can
with this stuff, but there we go.
You should easily be able
to write this stuff out.
You already know it's a type event, so
you need to mutate the filters object
with a little extra layer, boom.
So if it doesn't already exist,
it'd be easy to exist,
you'd get 100,000 stars on GitHub.
And everyone knows that every star
you get increases your pay by 0.1%,
so it's very important to have
a lot of stars on GitHub.